Release notes for ipsec-client 3.3.0 (#374)
128technology/docs: docs/plugin_ipsec_client.md

This plugin can only connect to IPsec endpoints that support pre-shared key authentication.
:::

#### Custom Options

##### Version History

| Release  | Modification                         |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ |

> | 3.3.0    | `profile > custom-option` introduced |

Reviewer: Add the version history to new command?

The `custom-option` allows the user to configure additional obscure libreswan options that are not exposed via the profile and remote configuration.

```
config

    authority

        router  RTR_EAST_1_COMBO
            name           RTR_EAST_1_COMBO

            ipsec-profile  primary
                name           primary

                custom-option  key
                    name   key
                    value  value
                exit
            exit
        exit
    exit
exit
```

| Config   | Description                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| name     | The name of the libreswan option     |
| value    | The value of the option              |

:::warning

> The `custom-option` are added to the libreswan config file and any invalid option could prevent the application from starting up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `custom-option` is added to the libreswan config file; any invalid option could prevent the application from starting up.
```

exit
```

| Config   | Description                          |
| -------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `enabled` | Allows you to switch tunnel monitoring on and off for a `remote`. |

> | `address` | The IP or hostname where traffic is sent. This address must be reachable after traversing the  |tunnel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `address` | The IP or hostname where traffic is sent. This address must be reachable after traversing the  tunnel. |
```

> | `timeout` | Duration (in seconds) within which to reach the destination. Each attempt will be made in this  |duration / `max-retries` interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `timeout` | Duration (in seconds) within which to reach the destination. Each attempt will be made in this duration / `max-retries` interval. |
```

> | `max-retries` | Number of consecutive missed ICMP ping responses from the destination within the interval  |before deciding that the tunnel is unhealthy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `max-retries` | Number of consecutive missed ICMP ping responses from the destination within the interval before deciding that the tunnel is unhealthy. |
```

| `interval` | Duration (in seconds) of how often to perform an ICMP probe test to the probe-address. |

> | `tunnel-monitor-nat-network` | The subnet where traffic originates. The corresponding ingress KNI's fourth  |octet is used. By default, the subnet `10.128.128.0/28` is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `tunnel-monitor-nat-network` | The subnet where traffic originates. The corresponding ingress KNI's fourth octet is used. By default, the subnet `10.128.128.0/28` is used. |
```

           Last Restart:2022-02-14 15:41:15
```

### Commands

> The `restart ipsec tunnel` command can be used to restart an individual IPSec tunnel via the conductor PCLI and UI.

Author: ```suggestion
The `restart ipsec remote` command can be used to restart an individual IPSec tunnel via the conductor PCLI and UI.
```

## Release Notes

### Release 3.3.0

#### New Features and Improvements
- **PLUGIN-630** Raise the number of supported IPSec client tunnels from 2 to 4

The plugin now supports up to 4 IPSec tunnels per node.

- **PLUGIN-1641** Optimize the initial IPSec environment setup

The majority of the IPSec config and environment management is performed locally on the router thereby minimizing the interaction with salt states.

- **PLUGIN-1533** Create a command to restart an individual tunnel

A new command was added to allow the user to restart an individual tunnel. More details can be found in the [commands section](#commands)

- **PLUGIN-1532** Enable additional configuration options for IPSec tunnels.

The `encapsulation` and `remote-peer-type` options are now available for configuration.

- **PLUGIN-1554** Collect ipsec-client plugin data as part of tech support info

The detailed tech support info bundle will now include the necessary logs and data for troubleshooting ipsec-client plugin related problems.

> - **PLUGIN-1598** - Support custom options for obscure libreswan config pieces

Reviewer: `pieces` -> `fields`?

A new config option has been added to enable libreswan features that are not made available as first class configuration.

> - **PLUGIN-1591** Add cpu, memory & status tracking for ipsec services

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **PLUGIN-1591** Add cpu, memory, and  status tracking for ipsec services.
```

The system will now track the cpu, memory and usage information for various IPSec client related processes.

#### Issues Fixed

- **PLUGIN-1628** Incorrect network-script path was being used in the auto generated device-interface configuration

>   _**Resolution**_ The auto configuration was updated to use the right script path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  _**Resolution**_ The auto configuration was updated to use the correct script path.
```
